---
title: "Styles"
bg: '#63BD2F'
color: white
fa-icon: plug
---

In the western world, asanas are taught in different styles by the various schools of yoga.
Sivananda Yoga practices the asanas, Hatha yoga, as part of Raja yoga, with the goal of enabling practitioners to sit in meditation for a long time.
Iyengar Yoga emphasises precision and alignment and prioritises 
In Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga, poses are executed differently from Iyengar Yoga.  Vinyasa means flowing, and the poses are executed relatively rapidly, flowing continuously from one asana to the next using defined transitional movements.  
Kripalu Yoga uses teachers from other asana traditions, focussing on mindfulness rather than using effort in the poses.
In Bikram Yoga, 

Surya Namaskara
 
The name Surya here refers to the sun and Namaskara means salutations.  Surya Namaskara has been handed down from the enlightened sages of the vedic age.
Prayer of Surya Namaskara
Hiranmayena patrena satyasyapihitam mukham|
Tat tvam pusannapavrnu satyadharmaya drstaye || Isavasyopanisad-15||
Meaning: Like a lid to a vessel, O Sun, your golden orb covers the entrance to Truth.  Kindly open thy entrance, to lead me to truth.
Surya Namaskara is an effective way of loosening up, stretching, massaging and toning all the joints, muscles and internal organs of the body.
Surya Namaskara is a complete sadhana.  It includes asana, pranayama, mantra and meditation techniques.
Each stage of Surya Namaskara is accompanied by regulation of breath.  Each round of Surya Namaskara is done after the utterance of Omkara with the appropriate Bija mantra, along with the corresponding name of Sun God in the following sequence.

1. Om Hram Mitraya Namaha
2. Om Hrim Ravaye Namaha
3. Om Hrum Suryaya Namaha
4. Om Hraim Bhanave Namaha
5. Om Hraum Khagaya Namaha
6. Om Hrah Pusne Namaha
7. Om Hram Hiranyagarbhaya Namaha
8. Om Hrim Maricaye Namaha
9. Om Hrum Adityaya Namaha
10. Om Hraim Savitre Namaha
11. Om Hraum Arkaya Namaha
12. Om Hrah Bhaskaraya Namaha

Mantras are combinations of sounds which are designed to produce a specific effect on the mind and its functioning. 
The six Bija mantras are evocative sounds that have no literal meaning in themselves, but set up powerful vibrations of energy within the mind and body.
Regular practice of Surya Namaskara prevents all problems related to the stomach.  It balances the metabolic rate at which your stomach digests food.  Backward and forward bends stretch the spine and back muscles.   The poses in Surya Namaskara have a great impact on the heart, liver, intestine, stomach, chest, throat, and legs, the whole body from top to bottom.  It purifies the blood and improves blood circulation throughout the body and ensures proper functioning of the stomach, bowels and nerve centers.  It balances the three constitutions vata, pitta and kapha.  It improves posture and helps in losing weight.  Increases flexibility.
Doing Surya Namaskara at a fast pace provides a good cardiovascular workout.  If done at a slow pace, the postures help tone the muscles and can be relaxing and meditative.
It should not be practiced when you have excess toxins in the body, fever, boils, rashes, or if you suffer high blood pressure, heart problems, hernia, slip disc, sciatica or even during the onset of menstruation as it may create more pressure and heat.

Relaxation
 
Relaxation refers to the loosening of bodily and mental tension.   It helps to reduce stress, blood pressure and lower heart rate.
 
Meditation
 
Meditation is the process of systematically allowing the mind to become still for specific periods of time each day.  It is an exercise for the mind that involves relaxation, focus and awareness.   Meditation has many health benefits.  It is a highly effective way to relieve stress and maintain a healthier lifestyle.  There are various meditation techniques like Japajapa, Antara Mouna, Yoga Nidra, Chidakasha Dharana, Hridayakasha Dharana.


