---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
---

### *Yoga *
{: .text-purple}

<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-bicycle fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>

# Simplified
{: .text-purple}


 Yoga is an art and science for healthy living.  It brings harmony between mind and body.

Yoga works on the level of one's body, mind, emotion and energy.

The science of yoga begins to work on the outermost aspect of the personality, the physical body, which for most people is a practical and familiar starting point.

Aim of yoga practice is to overcome all kinds of sufferings.

Yoga brings the different bodily functions into perfect coordination so that they work for the good of the whole body.

Various styles of yoga combine physical posture (asanas), breathing techniques (pranayama), relaxation, and meditation aimed at developing harmony in the body and mind.

Practicing yoga reduces the risks of non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, stroke, diabetes, thyroid, heart attack etc. 

Yoga is not only for physical health but about the inner peace, emotional balance and spiritual growth.

Yoga Asanas not only affect our muscles, joints, bone and organs, but our emotions too.

Yoga believes different emotions have specific attraction to particular organs.

Excessive fear can damage kidneys.

An excess of anger can damage the liver.

Too much hate damages the heart, while excess grief damages lungs.

Sympathy in overabundance damages spleen.

Sadness affects our brain.

Yoga has such a feature that keeps our mind stable and teaches us the art of staying healthy in any ups and down of life.

Yoga helps manage and regulate emotions.

Some emotions become stored and held in the body may create uneasy, stress, tension and pain.  Yoga is the perfect way to release the stress, uneasiness, and emotional tension in the body and experience becoming well with this release.


--

<span id="forkongithub">
  <a href="{{ site.source_link }}" class="bg-blue">
    Fork me on GitHub
  </a>
</span>
